---
title: "2023"
date: 2023-12-31T23:25:26+08:00
author: "152334H"

lastmod: 2023-12-31T23:25:26+08:00
featuredImagePreview: ""
featuredImage: ""

draft: false
subtitle: "All words written in vagueness"
description: ""
tags: ["personal"]
categories: []

---

Let's keep this short.

<!--more-->

2023 was the best year of my life. I went from being a conscripted nolife to having one of the best jobs in the world. I met people and went to places I would've never thought about, much less cared about, much less thought possible. I fundamentally escaped monotony, and pursued things that felt right but were baffling to my peers. I became financially well-off.

I also got lazier, and dumber. I reflect less and less on my beliefs, spend less time seeking out novel information, and generally lost all alpha. I allowed opportunities to die on the wire, ignoring the things that matter, in favor of staying relaxed. I suffered more tears, migranes, nosebleeds, eczema, cataplexy attacks, etc. this year than the last. I took the novel step of voluntarily seeking out doctors for health concerns (novel for me!), and found some help but not enough. I gave up on the last holdout of my personal philosophy that still mattered to me.

In short: materially & situationally way better; subjectively worse in spirit & health.

---

## Resolutions

What I want out of 2024, are 5 simple things:
1. Increased willfulness
2. Social Exploration
3. Better Health
4. Corrected Information Streams
5. Excitement for the Future

## Predictions

Nil.

I don't know anything especially secret or poorly reported about the future, anymore, so I cannot make probable-but-interesting predictions. This was a lot easier a year ago; past me nailed a lot in private chats. Current me is *extremely* confused about many different things, like:
* how does the moat hold?
* why'd stability win in court?
* what follows llms?
* when will the levee of VC OSS funds break?
* what are the current events going on in the external environment that actually matter

I can't even predict what I'll do tomorrow, much less what happens a year from now.

## History

Redacted.

---

## Monthly progress report - Jan
I clicked on my blog on accident and noticed I had written resolutions at some point. It's a bit bad that I've forgotten about them already, but let's run down the list anyway for fun.

1. Willfulness
	* Complete abject failure. I have made no explicit good choices in the last month.
	* I have explicitly thought about making good choices on some occasions, and explicitly rejected the good choice in those situations. Arguably this is progress, if you consider flipping a sign to be easier than changing magnitudes.
2. Exploration
	* A bit IRL. Not much. 
	* Exploration online is more important than in-person, so long as I continue to live in the backwater of Southeast Asia.
3. Health
	* I have decided that all of my problems are **psychosomatic**. This includes the parts that involve physical evidence, such as waking up to dried blood. The idea that problems cannot be surpassed by sheer willpower is mentally degrading & I choose to reject it.
4. Epistemics
	* Nil progress.
	* I have an idea of where I should be starting, but haven't blocked out the time to do so.
5. Faith
	* Negative progress; increasingly undetermined to deal with the real world.

Having gone through this, I realise I don't actually agree with the premise of some of these goals anymore. I am more determined to solve (1) and (4), but I don't particularly want to touch the rest.

But *because* I've yet to implement (1), my desires remain unanchored, and it's likely I'll oscillate into pinning more value on the other tasks at some point in the future. In particular, I expect unavoidable change over the next week. 
